# RangeControl
I'm Devin Paden (gmcyber), a professor at Champlain College with a penchant for Cyber Security, Programming and Automation.  After running interferrence in the lab where students battled for use of a single workstation, I instituted a pilot program to migrate many of our labs to esxi and vcenter.  This worked surprisingly well, particularly when COVID changed all our plans.  16 esxi hosts later, we now have the majority of our systems adminsitration and security courses running on hypervisors in the datacenter.

RangeControl (formerly known as OpenRange) is a set of Powershell Modules that I use to deploy Linked Clone Virtual Machines in an educational or competition environment such as NECCDC.  It has been used since 2017 at Champlain College for vSphere based courses where students and student groups configure multiple systems on multiple virtual networks.  It has scaled to well over 2000 concurrent virtual machines.  This architecture typically pins a class/section or competive team to large hypevisor with 40+ Cores and 512 GiB RAM  Such a system can typically service a 25 person course with a mix of 10-12 virtual machines for each student.  Each student would receive multiple virtual networks, access to a shared WAN as well as 2-3 private network segments.  Roles and Privileges are enforced through vSphere Roles.  Integration with Active Directory allows robust access control to Student and Network Folders such that a logged in users environment is isolated from other students or competitors.  Instructors can interract with student virtual consoles which allows quick assistance with technical problems when courses are taught remotely.